Research assistant protocol
Briefing:
The overall goal of this study is to track your eye movement while you are reading a series of statements, and choosing the statement you think has been made most recently. The eye-tracking is done by the bar in front of you. In addition, your facial expressions are recorded by a webcam during the study. Your facial expressions are recorded to see if any statements invoke certain emotions. The data is stored securely and is confidential, and no video or images of you will ever be uploaded to the web or used in raw form in any way. All data is stored securely at the University of Copenhagen. Before we start this experiment, we first have to do a short calibration of the eye-tracker. After this, an example of the task you will have to perform will be given, so you can become familiar with the controls. The main experiment will then start. During the main experiment, you must sit as still as you can and not move your head, as this can interfere with the eye-tracker. It is therefore very important you are sitting comfortably now, before the calibration is performed, and that you are able to sit like this for approximately 30 to 40 minutes. If not, please adjust your position now. During the experiment, I will be sitting on the other side of this whiteboard, making sure the tracking data is collected correctly. If you at any point during the experiment feel uncomfortable and wish to stop, please let me know, and I will stop the experiment immediately. You use the keyboard with the keys between 1-3 to indicate which statement you think is the most recent, after you have clicked on the keyboard you will see 3 new statements. It is not possible to go back and revisit your answers.

Debriefing:
Thanks for participating in the study. The aim of this study is actually to see if there is any systematic diﬀerence in eye movements based on the factuality of the statement. As we did not want you to know if any statements were false, and thereby inﬂuence your reading behavior, the task you performed was not related to the factuality of the statements. As we do not wish future participants to know this before they do the experiment, we ask you not to tell this to anyone, before all experiments have been performed, which is completed at the end of December. All your data will be treated confidentially, and you can at any point retract your consent of us using the data. You will receive your movie tickets via your email. At the end of the study period, you will be sent the list of statements with labels.



